

THE citizens of Nicea, Sir; are building a theatre, which, though it is
not yet finished, has already exhausted, as I am informed (for I have
not examined the account myself), above ten millions of sesterces;[1037]
and, what is worse, I fear to no purpose. For either from the foundation
being laid in soft, marshy ground, or that the stone itself is light and
crumbling, the walls are sinking, and cracked from top to bottom. It
deserves your consideration, therefore, whether it would be best to
carry on this work, or entirely discontinue it, or rather, perhaps,
whether it would not be most prudent absolutely to destroy it: for the
buttresses and foundations by means of which it is from time to time
kept up appear to me more expensive than solid. Several private persons
have undertaken to build the compartment of this theatre at their own
expense, some engaging to erect the portico, others the galleries over
the pit:[1038] but this design cannot be executed, as the principal
building which ought first to be completed is now at a stand. This city
is also rebuilding, upon a far more enlarged plan, the gymnasium,[1039]
which was burnt down before my arrival in the province. They have
already been at some (and, I rather fear, a fruitless) expense. The
structure is not only irregular and ill-proportioned, but the present
architect (who, it must be owned, is a rival to the person who was first
employed) asserts that the walls, although twenty-two feet[1040] in
thickness, are not strong enough to support the superstructure, as the
interstices are filled up with quarrystones, and the walls are not
overlaid with brickwork. Also the inhabitants of Claudiopolis[1041] are
sinking (I cannot call it erecting) a large public bath, upon a low spot
of ground which lies at the foot of a mountain. The fund appropriated
for the carrying on of this work arises from the money which those
honorary members you were pleased to add to the senate paid (or, at
least, are ready to pay whenever I call upon them) for their
admission.[1042] As I am afraid, therefore, the public money in the city
of Nicea, and (what is infinitely more valuable than any pecuniary
consideration) your bounty in that of Nicopolis, should be ill applied,
I must desire you to send hither an architect to inspect, not only the
theatre, but the bath; in order to consider whether, after all the
expense which has already been laid out, it will be better to finish
them upon the present plan, or alter the one, and remove the other, in
as far as may seem necessary: for otherwise we may perhaps throw away
our future cost in endeavoring not to lose what we have already
expended.


