

WHEN I reflect upon the splendour of your exalted station, and the
magnanimity of your spirit, nothing, I am persuaded, can be more
suitable to both than to point out to you such works as are worthy of
your glorious and immortal name, as being no less useful than
magnificent. Bordering upon the territories of the city of Nicomedia is
a most extensive lake; over which marbles, fruits, woods, and all kinds
of materials, the commodities of the country, are brought over in boats
up to the high-road, at little trouble and expense, but from thence are
conveyed in carriages to the sea-side, at a much greater charge and with
great labour. To remedy this inconvenience, many hands will be in
request; but upon such an occasion they cannot be wanting: for the
country, and particularly the city, is exceedingly populous; and one may
assuredly hope that every person will readily engage in a work which
will be of universal benefit. It only remains then to send hither, if
you shall think proper, a surveyor or an architect, in order to examine
whether the lake lies above the level of the sea; the engineers of this
province being of opinion that the former is higher by forty
cubits,[1044] I find there is in the neighbourhood of this place a large
canal, which was cut by a king of this country; but as it is left
unfinished, it is uncertain whether it was for the purpose of draining
the adjacent fields, or making a communication between the lake and the
river. It is equally doubtful too whether the death of the king, or the
despair of being able to accomplish the design, prevented the completion
of it. If this was the reason, I am so much the more eager and warmly
desirous, for the sake of your illustrious character (and I hope you
will pardon me the ambition), that you may have the glory of executing
what kings could only attempt.


