

A VERY considerable question, Sir, in which the whole province is
interested, has been lately started, concerning the state [1049b] and
maintenance of deserted children.[1050] I have examined the
constitutions of former princes upon this head, but not finding anything
in them relating, either in general or particular, to the Bithynians, I
thought it necessary to apply to you for your directions: for in a point
which seems to require the special interposition of your authority, I
could not content myself with following precedents. An edict of the
emperor Augustus (as pretended) was read to me, concerning one Annia; as
also a letter from Vespasian to the Lacedaemonians, and another from
Titus to the same, with one likewise from him to the Achaeans, also some
letters from Domitian, directed to the proconsuls Avidius Nigrinus and
Armenius Brocchus, together with one from that prince to the
Lacedaemonians: but I have not transmitted them to you, as they were not
correct (and some of them too of doubtful authenticity), and also
because I imagine the true copies are preserved in your archives.



LXXII TRAJAN TO PLINY

THE question concerning children who were exposed by their parents, and
afterwards preserved by others, and educated in a state of servitude,
though born free, has been frequently discussed; but I do not find in
the constitutions of the princes my predecessors any general regulation
upon this head, extending to all the provinces. There are, indeed, some
rescripts of Domitian to Avidius Nigrinus and Armenhis Brocchus, which
ought to be observed; but Bithynia is not comprehended in the provinces
therein mentioned. I am of opinion therefore that the claims of those
who assert their right of freedom upon this footing should be allowed;
without obliging them to purchase their liberty by repaying the money
advanced for their maintenance.[1051]


