

I HAVE enquired, Sir, at Prusa, for a proper place on which to erect the
bath you were pleased to allow that city to build, and I have found one
to my satisfaction. It is upon the site where formerly, I am told, stood
a very beautiful mansion, but which is now entirely fallen into ruins.
By fixing upon that spot, we shall gain the advantage of ornamenting the
city in a part which at present is exceedingly deformed, and enlarging
it at the same time without removing any of the buildings; only
restoring one which is fallen to decay. There are some circumstances
attending this structure of which it is proper I should inform you.
Claudius Polyaenus bequeathed it to the emperor Claudius CÃ¦sar, with
directions that a temple should be erected to that prince in a
colonnade-court, and that the remainder of the house should be let in
apartments. The city received the rents for a considerable time; but
partly by its having been plundered, and partly by its being neglected,
the whole house, colonnade-court, and all, is entirely gone to ruin, and
there is now scarcely anything remaining of it but the ground upon which
it stood. If you shall think proper, Sir, either to give or sell this
spot of ground to the city, as it lies so conveniently for their
purpose, they will receive it as a most particular favour. I intend,
with your permission, to place the bath in the vacant area, and to
extend a range of porticoes with seats in that part where the former
edifice stood. This new erection I purpose dedicating to you, by whose
bounty it will rise with all the elegance and magnificence worthy of
your glorious name. I have sent you a copy of the will, by which, though
it is inaccurate, you will see that Polyaenus left several articles of
ornament for the embellishment of this house; but these also are lost
with all the rest: I will, however, make the strictest enquiry after
them that I am able.


