

BY a law of Pompey's[1058] concerning the Bithynians, it is enacted,
Sir, that no person shall be a magistrate, or be chosen into the senate,
under the age of thirty. By the same law it is declared that those who
have exercised the office of magistrate are qualified to be members of
the senate. Subsequent to this law, the emperor Augustus published an
edict, by which it was ordained that persons of the age of twenty-two
should be capable of being magistrates. The question therefore is
whether those who have exercised the functions of a magistrate before
the age of thirty may be legally chosen into the senate by the
censors?[1059] And if so, whether, by the same kind of construction,
they may be elected senators, at the age which entitles them to be
magistrates, though they should not actually have borne any office? A
custom which, it seems, has hitherto been observed, and is said to be
expedient, as it is rather better that persons of noble birth should be
admitted into the senate than those of plebeian rank. The censors elect
having desired my sentiments upon this point, I was of opinion that both
by the law of Pompey and the edict of Augustus those who had exercised
the magistracy before the age of thirty might be chosen into the senate;
and for this reason, because the edict allows the office of magistrate
to be undertaken before thirty; and the law declares that whoever has
been a magistrate should be eligible for the senate. But with respect to
those who never discharged any office in the state, though they were of
the age required for that purpose, I had some doubt: and therefore, Sir,
I apply to you for your directions. I have subjoined to this letter the
heads of the law, together with the edict of Augustus.


