

As I had a very favourable voyage to Ephesus, so in travelling by post-
chaise from thence I was extremely troubled by the heats, and also by
some slight feverish attacks, which kept me some time at Pergamus. From
there, Sir, I got on board a coasting vessel, but, being again detained
by contrary winds, did not arrive at Bithynia so soon as I had hoped.
However, I have no reason to complain of this delay, since (which indeed
was the most auspicious circumstance that could attend me) I reached the
province in time to celebrate your birthday. I am at present engaged in
examining the finances of the Prusenses,[1012] their expenses, revenues,
and credits; and the farther I proceed in this work, the more I am
convinced of the necessity of my enquiry. Several large sums of money
are owing to the city from private persons, which they neglect to pay
upon various pretences; as, on the other hand, I find the public funds
are, in some instances, very unwarrantably applied. This, Sir, I write
to you immediately on my arrival. I entered this province on the 17th of
September,[1013] and found in it that obedience and loyalty towards
yourself which you justly merit from all mankind. You will consider,
Sir, whether it would not be proper to send a surveyor here; for I am
inclined to think much might be deducted from what is charged by those
who have the conduct of the public works if a faithful admeasurement
were to be taken: at least I am of that opinion from what I have already
seen of the accounts of this city, which I am now going into as fully as
is possible.


